{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626929
|native_name=Aquem (CT)
|subdivision_name3=SALCETE 002
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SALCETE 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=1.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6511
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3830
|population_blank1=3291
|population_blank2=3220
|female_per_1000_male=978
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Aquem (CT) (626929) ==

Aquem (CT) is a town in the [[SALCETE 002]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 1.7 sq. km. and harbouring 1580 households with total population of 6511 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 3 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 36 km. Male population is 3291 and female population is 3220. Scheduled Caste population is 98 and Scheduled Tribes population is 779. Census Location Code of the town is 626929<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 196 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 514 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3150.53 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5194
* Literate male population: 2723 (82.74%)
* Literate female population: 2471 (76.74%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MARGAO (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 21 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 27 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 32 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at NAVELIM CT (2 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at NUVEM CT (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (35 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at NAVELIM (3 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (30 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (12 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (6 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (3 km) .
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at ",MARGAO" (3 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (41 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MARGAO (3 km) .
  The nearest private Public Library is at MARGAO (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Aquem (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): WOODENFURNITURE,ICE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SALCETE 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


