{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626869
|native_name=Bandora (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12722
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1034
|population_blank1=7263
|population_blank2=5459
|female_per_1000_male=751
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Bandora (CT) (626869) ==

Bandora (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 12.3 sq. km. and harbouring 2517 households with total population of 12722 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 30 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 30 km. Male population is 7263 and female population is 5459. Scheduled Caste population is 259 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1819. Census Location Code of the town is 626869<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 135 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 508 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10409
* Literate male population: 6323 (87.06%)
* Literate female population: 4086 (74.85%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2350 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 36 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.





== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PONDA (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (28 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town.  
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (22 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (36 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (2 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (36 km) .
There is 1 government Engineering College in the town.   
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (30 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PONDA (16 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (2 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at QUELA CT (5 km) .
 There is 1 private Working Women's Hostel in the town.  
 There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.  
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (18 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at USGAO CT (20 km) .
 There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.  
There is 1 government Public Library in the town. There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Bandora (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): SOFT DRINKS,CASHEW NUTS,ARECA NUTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.



There are 5 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


