{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626872
|native_name=Borim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.3
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8257
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=539
|population_blank1=4129
|population_blank2=4128
|female_per_1000_male=999
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Borim (CT) (626872) ==

Borim (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 15.3 sq. km. and harbouring 1871 households with total population of 8257 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 38 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 38 km. Male population is 4129 and female population is 4128. Scheduled Caste population is 91 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1529. Census Location Code of the town is 626872<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 141 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 517 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 20 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6764
* Literate male population: 3583 (86.78%)
* Literate female population: 3181 (77.06%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 4 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 6 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 50 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There is 1 Non-Government medicine shop in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PONDA (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (35 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (22 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (46 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (6 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (46 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at SIRODA (4 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (40 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (4 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at QUELA CT (4 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (46 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PONDA (6 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town. There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Borim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,CASHEW NUTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.



There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


