{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626732
|native_name=Calapor (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.8
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14077
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1436
|population_blank1=7118
|population_blank2=6959
|female_per_1000_male=977
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Calapor (CT) (626732) ==

Calapor (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 9.8 sq. km. and harbouring 3514 households with total population of 14077 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 5 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 5 km. Male population is 7118 and female population is 6959. Scheduled Caste population is 427 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1211. Census Location Code of the town is 626732<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 166 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 484 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11628
* Literate male population: 6043 (84.9%)
* Literate female population: 5585 (80.26%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 0.5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 47 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 5 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 4 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 17 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at PANAJI (6 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (6 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (5 km) .
   
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (25 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at PANAJI (5 km) .
   
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA  CT (12 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (12 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at CHIMBEL CT (3 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (5 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at PANAJI (5 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Calapor (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): RICE PRODUCTS,VEGETABLE,COCONUT PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


