{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626695
|native_name=Calangute (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.72
|elevation_m=
|population_total=13810
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1178
|population_blank1=7199
|population_blank2=6611
|female_per_1000_male=918
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Calangute (CT) (626695) ==

Calangute (CT) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 11.72 sq. km. and harbouring 3305 households with total population of 13810 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 16 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 16 km. Male population is 7199 and female population is 6611. Scheduled Caste population is 202 and Scheduled Tribes population is 82. Census Location Code of the town is 626695<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 177 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 474 km. Railway station is at TIVIM at a distance of 17 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 11054
* Literate male population: 5981 (83.08%)
* Literate female population: 5073 (76.74%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 950 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MAPUSA (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 58 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 10 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 21 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 6 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CANDOLIM CT (4 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (25 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (26 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (19 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (24 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (10 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (22 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (46 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (10 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (17 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (10 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (10 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (11 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
 There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.  
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (10 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.   
 There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MAPUSA (10 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MAPUSA (10 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at MAPUSA (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Calangute (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): RICE PRODUCTS,CASHEW NUTS,BAKERY PRODUCT


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.





[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


