{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803254
|native_name=Canacona (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=CANACONA 005
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[CANACONA 005]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=18.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12434
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=664
|population_blank1=6294
|population_blank2=6140
|female_per_1000_male=975
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Canacona (M Cl) (803254) ==

Canacona (M Cl) is a town in the [[CANACONA 005]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 18.7 sq. km. and harbouring 2879 households with total population of 12434 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 70 km. Male population is 6294 and female population is 6140. Scheduled Caste population is 70 and Scheduled Tribes population is 206. Census Location Code of the town is 803254<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 195 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 573 km. Railway station is at CANACONA at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3203.76 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 4900 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 40 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 30 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 37 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
There are 2 Other medical amenitiess in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 7 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (15 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (40 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (40 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town.  
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at QUEPEM (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (40 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (70 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MARGAO (40 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (65 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (35 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (35 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (25 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (15 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (40 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (81 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at QUEPEM (20 km) .
 There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (40 km) .
There are 5 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Canacona (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): DRYFISH,SOFTDRINKS,COUNTRYLIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==
There are 6 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 9 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[CANACONA 005]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


