{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626697
|native_name=Candolim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.96
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8500
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1221
|population_blank1=4392
|population_blank2=4108
|female_per_1000_male=935
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Candolim (CT) (626697) ==

Candolim (CT) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 6.96 sq. km. and harbouring 2041 households with total population of 8500 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 12 km. Male population is 4392 and female population is 4108. Scheduled Caste population is 140 and Scheduled Tribes population is 8. Census Location Code of the town is 626697<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 181 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 478 km. Railway station is at TIVIM at a distance of 22 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6701
* Literate male population: 3637 (82.81%)
* Literate female population: 3064 (74.59%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MAPUSA (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 42 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 12 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 6 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 6 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (11 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (14 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (28 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (14 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM (CT) (18 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (42 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (10 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (12 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
There are 2 government Non-formal Training Centres in the town.   
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (11 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
 There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.  
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (10 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.   
 There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
 There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.  
  The nearest government Public Library is at MAPUSA (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Candolim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): IRON GRILLS,ICE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.


There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


