{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626865
|native_name=Candola (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.52
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5354
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=628
|population_blank1=2742
|population_blank2=2612
|female_per_1000_male=952
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Candola (CT) (626865) ==

Candola (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 8.52 sq. km. and harbouring 1280 households with total population of 5354 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 20 km. Male population is 2742 and female population is 2612. Scheduled Caste population is 26 and Scheduled Tribes population is 806. Census Location Code of the town is 626865<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 156 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 532 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4353
* Literate male population: 2312 (84.32%)
* Literate female population: 2041 (78.14%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 750 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 20 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 20 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 1 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 1 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 25 km .






== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private Middle School is at ORGAO CT (2 km) .
  The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at ORGAO CT (2 km) .
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.   
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (16 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.   
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (25 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (20 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (25 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (25 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (25 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (17 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (21 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (25 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at PONDA (20 km) .
  The nearest private Public Library is at ORGAO CT (1 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Candola (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): CERAMIC TILES,COCONUT PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==




There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


