{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626763
|native_name=Carapur (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BICHOLIM 004
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BICHOLIM 004]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5500
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=639
|population_blank1=2701
|population_blank2=2799
|female_per_1000_male=1036
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Carapur (CT) (626763) ==

Carapur (CT) is a town in the [[BICHOLIM 004]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 8.6 sq. km. and harbouring 1179 households with total population of 5500 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 35 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 35 km. Male population is 2701 and female population is 2799. Scheduled Caste population is 133 and Scheduled Tribes population is 336. Census Location Code of the town is 626763<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 149 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 490 km. Railway station is at Tivim at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 4261.44 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4510
* Literate male population: 2320 (85.89%)
* Literate female population: 2190 (78.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at BICHOLIM (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 77 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 7 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 22 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 35 km .


There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.



== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at BICHOLIM (7 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at SARVONA (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (36 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (29 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (23 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (37 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (39 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (22 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (40 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (65 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (29 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (36 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BICHOLIM (4 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at BICHOLIM (7 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at BICHOLIM (7 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (40 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (29 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ALDONA C T (26 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (18 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MAPUSA (21 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at SANQUELIM (5 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at MAPUSA (20 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Carapur (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==




There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BICHOLIM 004]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


