{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626729
|native_name=Corlim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6568
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1152
|population_blank1=3386
|population_blank2=3182
|female_per_1000_male=939
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Corlim (CT) (626729) ==

Corlim (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 5.7 sq. km. and harbouring 1583 households with total population of 6568 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 3386 and female population is 3182. Scheduled Caste population is 36 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1207. Census Location Code of the town is 626729<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 146 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 464 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 3 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5245
* Literate male population: 2819 (83.25%)
* Literate female population: 2426 (76.24%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 14 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 31 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 14 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 24 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at ELLA (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (16 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (7 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (17 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (14 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (12 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (14 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (14 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at ELLA (3 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (12 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (13 km) .
 There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.  
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (11 km) .
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.   
  The nearest government Public Library is at CARAMBOLIM (1 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Corlim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): RICE PRODUCTS,COCONUT PRODUCTS,CHILLY PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.



There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


