{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626887
|native_name=Cortalim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=MORMUGAO 001
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[MORMUGAO 001]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=8.33
|elevation_m=
|population_total=9080
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1090
|population_blank1=4796
|population_blank2=4284
|female_per_1000_male=893
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Cortalim (CT) (626887) ==

Cortalim (CT) is a town in the [[MORMUGAO 001]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 8.33 sq. km. and harbouring 2319 households with total population of 9080 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 18 km. Male population is 4796 and female population is 4284. Scheduled Caste population is 37 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2255. Census Location Code of the town is 626887<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 179 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 497 km. Railway station is at VERNA CT at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2982.21 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 7111
* Literate male population: 4013 (83.67%)
* Literate female population: 3098 (72.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at VERNA CT (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 10 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 10 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 8 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 20 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 6 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town. There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at VERNA CT (4 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (17 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at DABOLIM (8 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (17 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at DABOLIM (8 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (18 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MORMUGAO (15 km) .
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MORMUGAO (15 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (23 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA  CT (29 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at GOA VELHA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MORMUGAO (13 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MORMUGAO (13 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MORMUGAO (13 km) .
 There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Cortalim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COCONUT PRODUCTS,BAKERY PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[MORMUGAO 001]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


