{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626728
|native_name=Cumbarjua (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.4
|elevation_m=
|population_total=4917
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=2048
|population_blank1=2557
|population_blank2=2360
|female_per_1000_male=922
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Cumbarjua (CT) (626728) ==

Cumbarjua (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 2.4 sq. km. and harbouring 1121 households with total population of 4917 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 20 km. Male population is 2557 and female population is 2360. Scheduled Caste population is 45 and Scheduled Tribes population is 686. Census Location Code of the town is 626728<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (population_total < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 156 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 528 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4076
* Literate male population: 2183 (85.37%)
* Literate female population: 1893 (80.21%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
 The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (20 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 23 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 23 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 23 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 31 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There is 1 Non-Government medicine shop in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.   
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town.   
  The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CANDOLA CT (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (3 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (23 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (16 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at ELLA (8 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (26 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ELLA (8 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at ORGAO CT (3 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Cumbarjua (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,BAKERY PRODUCT,FURNITURE


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.







[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


