{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803250
|native_name=Cuncolim (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=SALCETE 002
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SALCETE 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=28.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=16623
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=579
|population_blank1=7924
|population_blank2=8699
|female_per_1000_male=1097
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Cuncolim (M Cl) (803250) ==

Cuncolim (M Cl) is a town in the [[SALCETE 002]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 28.7 sq. km. and harbouring 4070 households with total population of 16623 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 17 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 50 km. Male population is 7924 and female population is 8699. Scheduled Caste population is 157 and Scheduled Tribes population is 738. Census Location Code of the town is 803250<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 177 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 555 km. Railway station is at BALI at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3150.53 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from an over head tank. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MARGAO (17 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 12 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
There are 3 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 35 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 17 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 17 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 40 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 9 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 8 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 5 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 5 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (12 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at NUVEM CT (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (42 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at NAVELIM (9 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (47 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (26 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (26 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (12 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (43 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (17 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at MARGAO (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Cuncolim (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,IRON GRILLS.,WOODEN FURNITURE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SALCETE 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


