{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803252
|native_name=Curchorem-Cacora (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=QUEPEM 003
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[QUEPEM 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=22.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22730
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1005
|population_blank1=11601
|population_blank2=11129
|female_per_1000_male=959
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Curchorem-Cacora (M Cl) (803252) ==

Curchorem-Cacora (M Cl) is a town in the [[QUEPEM 003]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 22.6 sq. km. and harbouring 5667 households with total population of 22730 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 22 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 55 km. Male population is 11601 and female population is 11129. Scheduled Caste population is 338 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1362. Census Location Code of the town is 803252<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 153 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 531 km. Railway station is at Curchorem-Cacora at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3496.03 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 26 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 34 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 22 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 48 km .
There are 9 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 6 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 13 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 13 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 7 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 4 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (16 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at QUEPEM (8 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (18 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (54 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MARGAO (22 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (50 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (31 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (18 km) .
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.   
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (20 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (20 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (22 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (53 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at QUEPEM (7 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.   
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (22 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Curchorem-Cacora (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,OPTICAL FRAME,MINERAL WATER


== Market and Banking ==
There are 5 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 5 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 7 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[QUEPEM 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


