{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626926
|native_name=Curtorim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=SALCETE 002
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SALCETE 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=17.36
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12886
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=742
|population_blank1=6216
|population_blank2=6670
|female_per_1000_male=1073
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Curtorim (CT) (626926) ==

Curtorim (CT) is a town in the [[SALCETE 002]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 17.36 sq. km. and harbouring 3102 households with total population of 12886 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 8 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 43 km. Male population is 6216 and female population is 6670. Scheduled Caste population is 53 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1628. Census Location Code of the town is 626926<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 197 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 515 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3150.53 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10051
* Literate male population: 5033 (80.97%)
* Literate female population: 5018 (75.23%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MARGAO (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 22 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 23 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 7 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 32 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at NUVEM CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (8 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (28 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at NAVELIM (8 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (25 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (14 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (14 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (14 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (8 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (5 km) .
There is 1 government Special School for Disabled in the town.   
   


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.   
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (47 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.   
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (8 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (8 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Curtorim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): STEEL,BOTTLE CAPS,AERATED WATER


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SALCETE 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


