{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626734
|native_name=Goa Velha (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=4322
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=427
|population_blank1=2129
|population_blank2=2193
|female_per_1000_male=1030
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Goa Velha (CT) (626734) ==

Goa Velha (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 10.1 sq. km. and harbouring 1055 households with total population of 4322 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 9 km. Male population is 2129 and female population is 2193. Scheduled Caste population is 20 and Scheduled Tribes population is 116. Census Location Code of the town is 626734<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (population_total < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 170 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 488 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM CT at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3473
* Literate male population: 1779 (83.56%)
* Literate female population: 1694 (77.25%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 7 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 52 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 3 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 20 km .



There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (10 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Commerce in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (12 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (6 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (13 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (10 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (17 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (16 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.   
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (16 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town.   
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at PANAJI (10 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Goa Velha (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): SOFT DRINKS,CHILLY PRODUCTS,COCONUT PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.





[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


