{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626693
|native_name=Guirim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.03
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5036
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1249
|population_blank1=2502
|population_blank2=2534
|female_per_1000_male=1012
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Guirim (CT) (626693) ==

Guirim (CT) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 4.03 sq. km. and harbouring 1178 households with total population of 5036 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 9 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 9 km. Male population is 2502 and female population is 2534. Scheduled Caste population is 43 and Scheduled Tribes population is 4. Census Location Code of the town is 626693<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 169 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 470 km. Railway station is at TIVIM at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4123
* Literate male population: 2117 (84.61%)
* Literate female population: 2006 (79.16%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 550 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MAPUSA (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 51 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 14 km .






== Educational Facilities ==
There are 2 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at MAPUSA (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (21 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (17 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (15 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (39 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (5 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at MAPUSA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (6 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (12 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (5 km) .
 There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.  
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (5 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MAPUSA (3 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MAPUSA (6 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at MAPUSA (3 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Guirim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): ICE FACTORY,COCONUT PRODUCTS,WOODEN FURNITURE


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.







[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


