{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626659
|native_name=Mandrem (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PERNEM
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PERNEM]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=19.59
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8336
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=425
|population_blank1=4164
|population_blank2=4172
|female_per_1000_male=1001
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Mandrem (CT) (626659) ==

Mandrem (CT) is a town in the [[PERNEM]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 19.59 sq. km. and harbouring 1882 households with total population of 8336 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 33 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 33 km. Male population is 4164 and female population is 4172. Scheduled Caste population is 173 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3. Census Location Code of the town is 626659<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 156 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 458 km. Railway station is at PERNEM at a distance of 14 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3117.14 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6811
* Literate male population: 3575 (85.85%)
* Literate female population: 3236 (77.56%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 920 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PERNEM (14 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 16 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 86 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 17 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 32 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 16 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 28 km .
There are 2 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 2 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (32 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (38 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (32 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (46 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (50 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (32 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (50 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (74 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (38 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (38 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (22 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PERNEM (14 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (27 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (44 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (27 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at SIOLIM C T (9 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (14 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PERNEM (14 km) .
 There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.  
There is 1 government Public Library in the town. There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Mandrem (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PERNEM]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


