{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803242
|native_name=Mapusa (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.32
|elevation_m=
|population_total=39989
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3532
|population_blank1=20322
|population_blank2=19667
|female_per_1000_male=967
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Mapusa (M Cl) (803242) ==

Mapusa (M Cl) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 11.32 sq. km. and harbouring 9466 households with total population of 39989 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 12 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 12 km. Male population is 20322 and female population is 19667. Scheduled Caste population is 1638 and Scheduled Tribes population is 154. Census Location Code of the town is 803242<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 172 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 467 km. Railway station is at TIVIM at a distance of 9 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
 The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 6750 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 54 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 12 km .
There are 13 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 13 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 25 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 16 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 9 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 9 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
 There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (13 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (16 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (13 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (18 km) .
 There are 2 private Degree College - Otherss in the town.  
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (18 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (42 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (8 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (13 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town. There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town.  
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (10 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (9 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ASSAGAO (9 km) .
There are 2 government stadiums in the town.   
 There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.  
 There are 2 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.  
There is 1 government Public Library in the town. There are 14 private Public Librarys in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Mapusa (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COMPUTOR,MEDICINE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 25 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 9 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 24 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


