{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803249
|native_name=Margao (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=SALCETE 002
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SALCETE 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=15.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=87650
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=5804
|population_blank1=44367
|population_blank2=43283
|female_per_1000_male=975
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Margao (M Cl) (803249) ==

Margao (M Cl) is a town in the [[SALCETE 002]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 15.1 sq. km. and harbouring 21406 households with total population of 87650 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 33 km. Male population is 44367 and female population is 43283. Scheduled Caste population is 1581 and Scheduled Tribes population is 4857. Census Location Code of the town is 803249<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 193 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 511 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3150.53 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 26550 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 3 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 19 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 30 km .
There are 21 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 21 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 77 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 14 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 29 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 16 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There are 15 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town. There are 4 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
 There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town.  
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at NUVEM CT (2 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College - Law in the town.  
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (35 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.  
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (29 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA C T (10 km) .
 There is 1 private Management Institute in the town.  
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (10 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town. There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town.  
 There is 1 private Non-formal Training Centre in the town.  
 There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.  
   


== Facilities ==
There is 1 government Orphanage Home in the town.   
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (41 km) .
There are 2 government Old Age Homes in the town. There are 2 private Old Age Homes in the town.  
There is 1 government stadium in the town. There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
 There are 3 private Cinema Theatres in the town.  
 There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.  
There are 3 government Public Librarys in the town. There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Margao (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,CANNED FISH


== Market and Banking ==
There are 35 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 15 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 11 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 18 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SALCETE 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


