{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626735
|native_name=Mercurim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=2.6
|elevation_m=
|population_total=4970
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1911
|population_blank1=2329
|population_blank2=2641
|female_per_1000_male=1133
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Mercurim (CT) (626735) ==

Mercurim (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 2.6 sq. km. and harbouring 1233 households with total population of 4970 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 15 km. Male population is 2329 and female population is 2641. Scheduled Caste population is 14 and Scheduled Tribes population is 602. Census Location Code of the town is 626735<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class VI (population_total < 5,000).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 176 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 494 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 12 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3982
* Literate male population: 1940 (83.3%)
* Literate female population: 2042 (77.32%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (15 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 57 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 4 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 15 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 22 km .



There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There is 1 government [[Primary School]] in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at GOA VELHA CT (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (3 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (18 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (10 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (10 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at GOA VELHA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (15 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (17 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
 There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.  
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (17 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at GOA VELHA CT (5 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.   
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (15 km) .
 There are 3 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.  
  The nearest government Public Library is at PANAJI (15 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Mercurim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): RICE PRODUCTS,CHILLY PRODUCTS,COCONUT PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.






[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


