{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626661
|native_name=Morjim (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PERNEM
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PERNEM]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=9.97
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6760
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=678
|population_blank1=3356
|population_blank2=3404
|female_per_1000_male=1014
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Morjim (CT) (626661) ==

Morjim (CT) is a town in the [[PERNEM]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 9.97 sq. km. and harbouring 1477 households with total population of 6760 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 25 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 25 km. Male population is 3356 and female population is 3404. Scheduled Caste population is 46 and Scheduled Tribes population is 12. Census Location Code of the town is 626661<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 161 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 463 km. Railway station is at PERNEM at a distance of 18 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3117.14 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5530
* Literate male population: 2891 (86.14%)
* Literate female population: 2639 (77.53%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1450 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PERNEM (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 22 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 80 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 10 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 22 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 35 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at MANDREM (5 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (33 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MAPUSA (33 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (18 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (33 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (26 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (50 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (34 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (51 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (75 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (42 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (26 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (15 km) .
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (20 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (26 km) .
  The nearest private Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (43 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ASSAGAO (40 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town.   
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PERNEM (18 km) .
 There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.  
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Morjim (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,CASHEW NUTS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PERNEM]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


