{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803248
|native_name=Mormugao (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=MORMUGAO 001
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[MORMUGAO 001]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=27.36
|elevation_m=
|population_total=94393
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3450
|population_blank1=49633
|population_blank2=44760
|female_per_1000_male=901
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Mormugao (M Cl) (803248) ==

Mormugao (M Cl) is a town in the [[MORMUGAO 001]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 27.36 sq. km. and harbouring 21524 households with total population of 94393 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 27 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 29 km. Male population is 49633 and female population is 44760. Scheduled Caste population is 2161 and Scheduled Tribes population is 480. Census Location Code of the town is 803248<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 193 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 511 km. Railway station is at MORMUGAO at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2982.21 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 10000 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There are 4 Allopathic hospital facilitys in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 25 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 25 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 30 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
There is 1 Other medical amenities in the town.
There are 51 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 9 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 24 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 14 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 18 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 7 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 16 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There are 6 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town. There are 17 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There are 3 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (27 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (27 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at DABOLIM (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at NUVEM CT (22 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (30 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (30 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College - Others in the town.  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at DABOLIM (10 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (25 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (18 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town. There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town.  
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
 There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.  
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (29 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (36 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at GOA VELHA  CT (20 km) .
There is 1 government stadium in the town. There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
 There are 2 private Cinema Theatres in the town.  
 There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.  
 There are 2 private Public Librarys in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Mormugao (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): IRON GRILLS,MEDICINES,BAKERY PRODUCTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 25 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 10 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 25 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[MORMUGAO 001]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


