{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626731
|native_name=Murda (CT)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=1.9
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7517
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=3956
|population_blank1=3699
|population_blank2=3818
|female_per_1000_male=1032
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Murda (CT) (626731) ==

Murda (CT) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 1.9 sq. km. and harbouring 1803 households with total population of 7517 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 3 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 3 km. Male population is 3699 and female population is 3818. Scheduled Caste population is 81 and Scheduled Tribes population is 314. Census Location Code of the town is 626731<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 164 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 482 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM CT at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6117
* Literate male population: 3066 (82.89%)
* Literate female population: 3051 (79.91%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (4 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 3.5 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 46 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 2.5 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 4 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 17 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
 There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town. 
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CALAPOR CT (2 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (5 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (4 km) .
   
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (32 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (10 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (10 km) .
   
  The nearest government stadium is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at PANAJI (4 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at PANAJI (4 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Murda (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): ICE,FISHING NETS,SOFT DRINKS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.





[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


