{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626842
|native_name=Onda (CT)
|subdivision_name3=SATARI 005
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SATARI 005]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=7.93
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5863
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=739
|population_blank1=3178
|population_blank2=2685
|female_per_1000_male=844
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Onda (CT) (626842) ==

Onda (CT) is a town in the [[SATARI 005]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 7.93 sq. km. and harbouring 1619 households with total population of 5863 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 42 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 42 km. Male population is 3178 and female population is 2685. Scheduled Caste population is 30 and Scheduled Tribes population is 206. Census Location Code of the town is 626842<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 143 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 497 km. Railway station is at THIVIM at a distance of 24 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 4261.44 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4578
* Literate male population: 2631 (82.79%)
* Literate female population: 1947 (72.51%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at VALPOI (11 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 8 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 50 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 10 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 48 km .






== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at VALPOI (8 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at SARVONA (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (42 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (38 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (48 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (36 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (48 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (40 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (36 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at MAEM (17 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at VALPOI (11 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at BICHOLIM (12 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (36 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (40 km) .
  The nearest private stadium is at VALPOI (9 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at BICHOLIM (12 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at MAPUSA (43 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Onda (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): BUS COACHES,COUNTRY LIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 3 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SATARI 005]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


