{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626764
|native_name=Pale (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BICHOLIM 004
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BICHOLIM 004]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.5
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6043
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=447
|population_blank1=3128
|population_blank2=2915
|female_per_1000_male=931
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Pale (CT) (626764) ==

Pale (CT) is a town in the [[BICHOLIM 004]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 13.5 sq. km. and harbouring 1371 households with total population of 6043 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 44 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 44 km. Male population is 3128 and female population is 2915. Scheduled Caste population is 141 and Scheduled Tribes population is 1016. Census Location Code of the town is 626764<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 136 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 503 km. Railway station is at Tivim at a distance of 26 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 4261.44 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4822
* Literate male population: 2622 (83.82%)
* Literate female population: 2200 (75.47%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 700 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at BICHOLIM (18 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 13 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 86 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 13 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 13 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 13 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 28 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 38 km .






== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at SANQUELIM (13 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at SARVONA (6 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (39 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (31 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (24 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (46 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (50 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (38 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (50 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (74 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (39 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (44 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BICHOLIM (17 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (48 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at BICHOLIM (18 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (50 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (38 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ALDONA C T (25 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (36 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at BICHOLIM (18 km) .
 There is 1 private Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.  
There is 1 government Public Library in the town. There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Pale (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): MINIING IRON ORE


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.

There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BICHOLIM 004]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


