{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803243
|native_name=Panaji (M Corp. + OG)
|subdivision_name3=TISWADI 003
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[TISWADI 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=53.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=70991
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1321
|population_blank1=35988
|population_blank2=35003
|female_per_1000_male=972
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Panaji (M Corp. + OG) (803243) ==

Panaji (M Corp. + OG) is a town in the [[TISWADI 003]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 53.7 sq. km. and harbouring 17807 households with total population of 70991 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 0 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 0 km. Male population is 35988 and female population is 35003. Scheduled Caste population is 1707 and Scheduled Tribes population is 4586. Census Location Code of the town is 803243<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class II (population_total 50,000 to 99,999).
The civic status of the town is ''.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 161 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 479 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 2956.89 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 767
* Literate male population: 408 (1.13%)
* Literate female population: 359 (1.03%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 16800 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 42 km .
There are 4 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There are 5 Maternity and Child Welfare Centres in the town.
There are 5 Maternity Homes in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
There is 1 Veterinary hospital in the town.
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 10 km .
There are 15 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 15 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government charitable hospital or nursing home in the town.
There are 67 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 15 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 22 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 16 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There are 15 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town. There are 7 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
 There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town.  
 There is 1 private Degree College of Arts and Science in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at GOAVELHA CT (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (2 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College - Law in the town.  
There is 1 government Degree College - University in the town.   
There are 4 government Degree College - Otherss in the town. There are 3 private Degree College - Otherss in the town.  
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (6 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (28 km) .
There is 1 government Management Institute in the town.   
There is 1 government Polytechnic in the town.   
There are 7 government Vocational Training Schools in the town. There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town.  
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
 There are 2 private Special School for Disableds in the town.  
   


== Facilities ==
There are 2 government Orphanage Homes in the town. There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.  
There is 1 government Working Women's Hostel in the town.   
 There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.  
There is 1 government stadium in the town.   
 There are 4 private Cinema Theatres in the town.  
There are 3 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town. There are 5 private Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.  
There are 6 government Public Librarys in the town. There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Panaji (M Corp. + OG) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): BAKERY PRODUCT,COUNTRY LIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==
There are 46 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 16 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 21 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 56 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[TISWADI 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


