{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626700
|native_name=Pilerne (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=6.54
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5827
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=890
|population_blank1=3024
|population_blank2=2803
|female_per_1000_male=926
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Pilerne (CT) (626700) ==

Pilerne (CT) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 6.54 sq. km. and harbouring 1482 households with total population of 5827 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 10 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 10 km. Male population is 3024 and female population is 2803. Scheduled Caste population is 74 and Scheduled Tribes population is 52. Census Location Code of the town is 626700<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 184 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 479 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 17 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 4891
* Literate male population: 2591 (85.68%)
* Literate female population: 2300 (82.05%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from an over head tank. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 3150 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PANAJI (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 4 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 50 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 15 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 10 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 4 km .
There are 3 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 3 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 2 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest government [[Senior Secondary School]] is at PANAJI (9 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (28 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (30 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (11 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (11 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (17 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM (CT) (15 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C  T (39 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (5 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at PANAJI (8 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PANAJI (9 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (6 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (10 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (5 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at CANDOLIM C T (6 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (12 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PANAJI (9 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at PANAJI (9 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at PANAJI (9 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Pilerne (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): TELEPHONE CABLES,MEDICINES,PERFUMES


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.






[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


