{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803247
|native_name=Ponda (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.2
|elevation_m=
|population_total=22664
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=4358
|population_blank1=11729
|population_blank2=10935
|female_per_1000_male=932
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Ponda (M Cl) (803247) ==

Ponda (M Cl) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 5.2 sq. km. and harbouring 5818 households with total population of 22664 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 29 km. Male population is 11729 and female population is 10935. Scheduled Caste population is 264 and Scheduled Tribes population is 113. Census Location Code of the town is 803247<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class III (population_total 20,000 to 49,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 132 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 508 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 3150 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
There is 1 Allopathic hospital facility in the town.
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 3 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 42 km .
There are 14 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 14 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.

There are 41 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 5 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 4 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 3 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There are 3 government [[Secondary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town. There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
 There is 1 private Degree College of Commerce only in the town.  
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (30 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (3 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (16 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (35 km) .
 There is 1 private Degree College - Others in the town.  
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (34 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (29 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (29 km) .
There is 1 government Vocational Training School in the town.   
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (2 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at QUELA CT (2 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (35 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (16 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at USGAO CT (10 km) .
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There are 2 government Public Librarys in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Ponda (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): BAKERY PRODUCTS,PHARMACEUTICALS,FABRICATION


== Market and Banking ==
There are 14 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 8 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 8 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.
There are 2 Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.
There are 17 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


