{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626868
|native_name=Priol (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=13.92
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8164
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=586
|population_blank1=4147
|population_blank2=4017
|female_per_1000_male=968
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Priol (CT) (626868) ==

Priol (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 13.92 sq. km. and harbouring 1814 households with total population of 8164 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 20 km. The state headquarter [[]] is at a distance of 20 km. Male population is 4147 and female population is 4017. Scheduled Caste population is 36 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3142. Census Location Code of the town is 626868<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 141 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 517 km. Railway station is at CARAMBOLIM at a distance of 15 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 6705
* Literate male population: 3540 (85.36%)
* Literate female population: 3165 (78.79%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1400 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (9 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 9 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 7 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 9 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 9 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 12 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 12 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 32 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 3 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town. 
 There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 3 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at BANDORA CT (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PONDA (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (8 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (15 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (30 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (36 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (9 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (36 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (7 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at PANAJI (30 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (30 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BANDORA CT (7 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PONDA (9 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (9 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at QUELA CT (9 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (36 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (3 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (15 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at USGAO CT (24 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at PONDA (9 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Priol (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): PLASTIC BOTTLES,FABRICATION,HANDICRAFT ITEMS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.


There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


