{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626871
|native_name=Quela (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.4
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6852
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1268
|population_blank1=3500
|population_blank2=3352
|female_per_1000_male=957
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Quela (CT) (626871) ==

Quela (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 5.4 sq. km. and harbouring 1623 households with total population of 6852 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 32 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 32 km. Male population is 3500 and female population is 3352. Scheduled Caste population is 95 and Scheduled Tribes population is 385. Census Location Code of the town is 626871<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 134 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 511 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 25 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5669
* Literate male population: 2998 (85.66%)
* Literate female population: 2671 (79.68%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 300 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (3 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 25 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 3 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 3 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 42 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There is 1 Non-Government medicine shop in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 4 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PONDA (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (30 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (2 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (24 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (32 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (38 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (6 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at VERNA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest private Polytechnic is at VERNA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BANDORA CT (5 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PONDA (6 km) .
 There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.  
   


== Facilities ==
 There is 1 private Orphanage Home in the town.  
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (38 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (3 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at PONDA (3 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at PONDA (3 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Quela (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): TILES,CASHEW NUTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.



There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


