{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803251
|native_name=Quepem (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=QUEPEM 003
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[QUEPEM 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=14795
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1049
|population_blank1=7277
|population_blank2=7518
|female_per_1000_male=1033
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Quepem (M Cl) (803251) ==

Quepem (M Cl) is a town in the [[QUEPEM 003]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 14.1 sq. km. and harbouring 3613 households with total population of 14795 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 15 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 48 km. Male population is 7277 and female population is 7518. Scheduled Caste population is 216 and Scheduled Tribes population is 3286. Census Location Code of the town is 803251<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 170 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 548 km. Railway station is at Curchorem-Cacora at a distance of 8 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3540.9 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1200 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 15 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 29 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 35 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 15 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 40 km .



There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 9 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (9 km) .
There is 1 government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce in the town.   
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at NAVELIM (8 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (43 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (36 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (10 km) .
 There is 1 private Special School for Disabled in the town.  
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (10 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (46 km) .
There is 1 government Old Age Home in the town. There is 1 private Old Age Home in the town.  
  The nearest government stadium is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (15 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
 There is 1 private Public Library in the town.  


== Manufacturing ==
Quepem (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): WOODEN FURNITURE,NUT & BOLTS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 3 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There are 2 Private Commercial Banks in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 4 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[QUEPEM 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


