{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803253
|native_name=Sanguem (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=SANGUEM 004
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SANGUEM 004]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=4.9
|elevation_m=
|population_total=6444
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1315
|population_blank1=3162
|population_blank2=3282
|female_per_1000_male=1037
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Sanguem (M Cl) (803253) ==

Sanguem (M Cl) is a town in the [[SANGUEM 004]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 4.9 sq. km. and harbouring 1545 households with total population of 6444 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 29 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 60 km. Male population is 3162 and female population is 3282. Scheduled Caste population is 72 and Scheduled Tribes population is 379. Census Location Code of the town is 803253<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 162 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 540 km. Railway station is at Curchorem-Cacora at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3496.03 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2000 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 32 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 16 km .
There are 2 Dispensary / Health Centres in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 39 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 28 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 54 km .



There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There is 1 private [[Primary School]] in the town. 
 There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (6 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (22 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at QUEPEM (16 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (60 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM (55 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at SIRODA (20 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (6 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (25 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (65 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (25 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (6 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Sanguem (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): CASHEW NUTS,COUNTRY LIQUOR


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 3 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 6 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SANGUEM 004]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


