{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803245
|native_name=Sanquelim (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=BICHOLIM 004
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BICHOLIM 004]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=14.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=13651
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=928
|population_blank1=7071
|population_blank2=6580
|female_per_1000_male=930
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Sanquelim (M Cl) (803245) ==

Sanquelim (M Cl) is a town in the [[BICHOLIM 004]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 14.7 sq. km. and harbouring 3239 households with total population of 13651 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 37 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 37 km. Male population is 7071 and female population is 6580. Scheduled Caste population is 160 and Scheduled Tribes population is 91. Census Location Code of the town is 803245<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 147 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 492 km. Railway station is at Tivim at a distance of 16 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 4261.44 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2500 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at BICHOLIM (7 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 24 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 79 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity Home is at 7 km .
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 24 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 36 km .
There are 16 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 10 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 5 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
 There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
 There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.   
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at SARVONA (7 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (39 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (30 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (1 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (40 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (44 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (24 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (43 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (67 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (32 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at MAEM (12 km) .
 There is 1 private Vocational Training School in the town.  
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at BICHOLIM (8 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at BICHOLIM (7 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (40 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (32 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at ALDONA C T (28 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (25 km) .
 There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.  
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Sanquelim (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): IRON ORE,LIQUOR BOTTLE CAPS


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.
There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BICHOLIM 004]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


