{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=627021
|native_name=Sanvordem (CT)
|subdivision_name3=SANGUEM 004
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SANGUEM 004]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=5.1
|elevation_m=
|population_total=5103
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1000
|population_blank1=2552
|population_blank2=2551
|female_per_1000_male=999
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Sanvordem (CT) (627021) ==

Sanvordem (CT) is a town in the [[SANGUEM 004]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 5.1 sq. km. and harbouring 1187 households with total population of 5103 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 23 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 58 km. Male population is 2552 and female population is 2551. Scheduled Caste population is 141 and Scheduled Tribes population is 48. Census Location Code of the town is 627021<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 154 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 532 km. Railway station is at CURCHOREM-CACORA at a distance of 0 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3496.03 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 3844
* Literate male population: 2028 (79.47%)
* Literate female population: 1816 (71.19%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1100 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (2 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 26 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 8 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 2 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 33 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 26 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 2 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 48 km .
There is 1 Non-Government out-patient facility in the town.


There is 1 Non-Government medicine shop in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 7 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (2 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (24 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (24 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (22 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at QUEPEM (9 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (24 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (54 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MARGAO (22 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (51 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (32 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (22 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (2 km) .
  The nearest private Vocational Training School is at MARGAO (22 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (19 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (19 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (23 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (63 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at QUEPEM (10 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (23 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (23 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (2 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (2 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Sanvordem (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COCONUT PRODUCTS,CASHEW NUTS


== Market and Banking ==
There is 1 Nationalised Bank in the town.



There are 2 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SANGUEM 004]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


