{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626703
|native_name=Socorro (CT)
|subdivision_name3=BARDEZ 002
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[BARDEZ 002]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=12.5
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12908
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=1032
|population_blank1=6634
|population_blank2=6274
|female_per_1000_male=945
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Socorro (CT) (626703) ==

Socorro (CT) is a town in the [[BARDEZ 002]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 12.5 sq. km. and harbouring 3247 households with total population of 12908 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 7 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 7 km. Male population is 6634 and female population is 6274. Scheduled Caste population is 387 and Scheduled Tribes population is 27. Census Location Code of the town is 626703<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 167 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 470 km. Railway station is at TIVIM at a distance of 19 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3096.97 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 10725
* Literate male population: 5592 (84.29%)
* Literate female population: 5133 (81.81%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from an over head tank. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 2050 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at MAPUSA (6 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 6 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 49 km .
The nearest Dispensary / Health Centre is at 6 km .
The nearest Family Welfare Centre is at 5 km .
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 0 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 6 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 8 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 8 km .
There are 4 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There are 4 Non-Government in and out patient facilitys in the town.




== Educational Facilities ==
There are 3 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town.   
  The nearest private [[Secondary School]] is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (4 km) .
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (4 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MAPUSA (6 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (9 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (22 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (7 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (9 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (13 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PANAJI (8 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (13 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (37 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PENHA DE FRANCA (CT) (4 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (8 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at MAPUSA (6 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (4 km) .
  The nearest government Special School for Disabled is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (5 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (4 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (3 km) .
  The nearest government Old Age Home is at CANDOLIM C T (10 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MAPUSA (8 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MAPUSA (7 km) .
  The nearest private Auditorium / Community Hall is at PANAJI (7 km) .
  The nearest government Public Library is at MAPUSA (6 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Socorro (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): STILL GRILLS,CEMENT PRODUCTS,WOODEN FURNITURE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 4 Nationalised Banks in the town.
There is 1 Private Commercial Bank in the town.






[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[BARDEZ 002]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


