{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626873
|native_name=Usgao (CT)
|subdivision_name3=PONDA 006
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[PONDA 006]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=25.4
|elevation_m=
|population_total=12436
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=489
|population_blank1=6370
|population_blank2=6066
|female_per_1000_male=952
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Usgao (CT) (626873) ==

Usgao (CT) is a town in the [[PONDA 006]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 25.4 sq. km. and harbouring 2867 households with total population of 12436 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 41 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 41 km. Male population is 6370 and female population is 6066. Scheduled Caste population is 118 and Scheduled Tribes population is 2075. Census Location Code of the town is 626873<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class IV (population_total 10,000 to 19,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 120 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 499 km. Railway station is at MARGAO at a distance of 30 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3630.42 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 9743
* Literate male population: 5291 (83.06%)
* Literate female population: 4452 (73.39%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open and closed drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 1600 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at PONDA (12 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 27 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 20 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 27 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 20 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 11 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 54 km .
There are 14 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.


There are 5 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 10 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 2 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There are 2 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There are 2 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
 There is 1 private [[Senior Secondary School]] in the town.  
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at PONDA (6 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at BANDORA CT (16 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at CANDOLA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (30 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (46 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at PONDA (15 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (45 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (30 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at PANAJI (45 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at BANDORA CT (18 km) .
  The nearest government Non-formal Training Centre is at PONDA (15 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at QUELA CT (15 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at QUELA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (46 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (20 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at MARGAO (22 km) .
 There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.  
There are 2 government Auditorium / Community Halls in the town.   
  The nearest private Public Library is at PONDA (12 km) .


== Manufacturing ==
Usgao (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): BAKERY PRODUCT,CASHEW NUTS,CHOCOLATES


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There are 2 [[Co-operative Bank]]s in the town.

There are 8 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[PONDA 006]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


