{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=803246
|native_name=Valpoi (M Cl)
|subdivision_name3=SATARI 005
|subdivision_name2=NORTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[NORTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[SATARI 005]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=11.7
|elevation_m=
|population_total=8532
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=729
|population_blank1=4327
|population_blank2=4205
|female_per_1000_male=971
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Valpoi (M Cl) (803246) ==

Valpoi (M Cl) is a town in the [[SATARI 005]] taluka of [[NORTH GOA]] district with an area of 11.7 sq. km. and harbouring 1834 households with total population of 8532 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 54 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 54 km. Male population is 4327 and female population is 4205. Scheduled Caste population is 93 and Scheduled Tribes population is 28. Census Location Code of the town is 803246<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Municipal Council'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 155 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 509 km. Railway station is at THIVIM at a distance of 35 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 4261.44 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.53
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 23.51


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: #N/A
* Literate male population: () (()%)
* Literate female population: () (()%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

There is fire fighting service in the town.


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 40 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 46 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity and Child Welfare Centre in the town.
There is 1 Maternity Home in the town.
There is 1 T.B. clinic in the town.
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 8 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 52 km .
There are 5 Non-Government out-patient facilitys in the town.
There is 1 Non-Government in and out patient facility in the town.

There are 4 Non-Government medicine shops in the town.


== Educational Facilities ==
There are 8 government [[Primary School]]s in the town. There are 3 private [[Primary School]]s in the town. 
There are 2 government Middle Schools in the town. There are 3 private Middle Schools in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There are 4 private [[Secondary School]]s in the town.  
There are 2 government [[Senior Secondary School]]s in the town.   
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at SARVONA (23 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at PANAJI (54 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at PERNEM RURAL (46 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at MAPUSA (44 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at PANAJI (57 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (60 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MAPUSA (42 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM C T (60 km) .
  The nearest government Engineering College is at BANDORA C T (34 km) .
  The nearest government Management Institute is at PANAJI (58 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at MAEM (28 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at ONDA CT (6 km) .
There is 1 government Non-formal Training Centre in the town.   
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at BICHOLIM (23 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest private Orphanage Home is at PANAJI (54 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA C T (48 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at BANDORA CT (37 km) .
 There is 1 private stadium in the town.  
 There is 1 private Cinema Theatre in the town.  
There is 1 government Auditorium / Community Hall in the town.   
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Valpoi (M Cl) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): COUNTRY LIQUOR,PICKLE


== Market and Banking ==
There are 2 Nationalised Banks in the town.

There is 1 [[Co-operative Bank]] in the town.
There is 1 Agricultural Credit Society in the town.
There are 10 Non Agricultural Credit Societys in the town.



[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[SATARI 005]]]]
[[Categories:[[NORTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


