{{Infobox settlement
|settlement_type=Town
|[[Census 2011]] Location Code=626969
|native_name=Xeldem (CT)
|subdivision_name3=QUEPEM 003
|subdivision_name2=SOUTH GOA
|subdivision_name1=GOA
|Division=
|subdivision_type2=[[SOUTH GOA]]
|subdivision_type3=[[QUEPEM 003]]
|Nearest city=[[BELGAUM]]
|| latd =  xx | latm =  xx  | lats =  xx  | latNS = N=
|| longd = xx | longm = xx | longs = xx | longEW = E=
|pushpin_label_position=right
|Area=10
|elevation_m=
|population_total=7434
|population_as_of=2011
|population_density=743
|population_blank1=3693
|population_blank2=3741
|female_per_1000_male=1012
|native_name_lang=[[Konkani, Marathi]]
}}

== Xeldem (CT) (626969) ==

Xeldem (CT) is a town in the [[QUEPEM 003]] taluka of [[SOUTH GOA]] district with an area of 10 sq. km. and harbouring 1815 households with total population of 7434 as per the 2011 Census. The district headquarter [[MARGAO]] is at a distance of 18 km. The state headquarter [[PANAJI]] is at a distance of 51 km. Male population is 3693 and female population is 3741. Scheduled Caste population is 114 and Scheduled Tribes population is 946. Census Location Code of the town is 626969<ref>http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/dchb/DCHB.html</ref>.

Population wise class of the town is Class V (population_total 5,000 to 9,999).
The civic status of the town is 'Census Town'.

The nearest city with population more than 1 lakh is BELGAUM at a distance of 167 km. The nearest city with population more than 5 lakh is PUNE at a distance of 545 km. Railway station is at Curchorem-Cacora at a distance of 6 km.


== Weather ==  
* Rainfall (mm.): 3496.03 
* Maximum Temperature (in centigrade): 31.33
* Minimum Temperature (in centigrade): 24.17


== Literacy ==  
* Total literate population: 5421
* Literate male population: 2828 (76.58%)
* Literate female population: 2593 (69.31%)


== Sanitation and Drinking Water ==  
The town has open drainage system.
Water is supplied from a service reservoir. The town gets it water as tap water from a treated source. The capacity of the water supply system is 800 kilo-litres.

The nearest fire fighting service is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (5 km) .


== Health Services ==
The nearest Allopathic hospital facility is at 18 km .
The nearest Alternative Medicine hospital is at 15 km .
There is 1 Dispensary / Health Centre in the town.
There is 1 Family Welfare Centre in the town.
The nearest Maternity and Child Welfare Centre is at 15 km .
The nearest Maternity Home is at 37 km .
The nearest T.B. clinic is at 18 km .
The nearest Nursing Home is at 0 km .
The nearest Veterinary hospital is at 5 km .
The nearest Mobile health clinic is at 0 km .
The nearest Other medical amenities is at 43 km .






== Educational Facilities ==
There are 6 government [[Primary School]]s in the town.  
There is 1 government Middle School in the town. There is 1 private Middle School in the town.  
There is 1 government [[Secondary School]] in the town. There is 1 private [[Secondary School]] in the town.  
  The nearest private [[Senior Secondary School]] is at QUEPEM (3 km) .
   
   
  The nearest private Degree College of Commerce only is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Science is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College of Arts and Commerce is at NAVELIM CT (10 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College of Arts, Science and Commerce is at QUEPEM (2 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Law is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Degree College - University is at PANAJI (46 km) .
  The nearest private Degree College - Others is at MARGAO (13 km) .
  The nearest government Medical College is at BAMBOLIM CT (42 km) .
  The nearest private Engineering College is at VERNA (24 km) .
  The nearest private Management Institute is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Polytechnic is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
  The nearest government Vocational Training School is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
  The nearest private Non-formal Training Centre is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest private Special School for Disabled is at MARGAO (20 km) .
   


== Facilities ==
  The nearest government Orphanage Home is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Working Women's Hostel is at PENHA DE FRANCA CT (49 km) .
  The nearest private Old Age Home is at QUEPEM (2 km) .
  The nearest government stadium is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
  The nearest private Cinema Theatre is at MARGAO (12 km) .
  The nearest government Auditorium / Community Hall is at CURCHOREM-CACORA (8 km) .
There is 1 government Public Library in the town.   


== Manufacturing ==
Xeldem (CT) is engaged in the manufacturing of following items (in decreasing order of importance): WOODEN FURNITURE,MOSAIC TILES,THREAD


== Market and Banking ==




There is 1 Non Agricultural Credit Society in the town.



[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA]]]]
[[Categories:[[QUEPEM 003]]]]
[[Categories:[[SOUTH GOA district towns]]]]


== References ==
{{Reflist}}


